README.md, before:

![CI logo](https://codeinstitute.s3.amazonaws.com/fullstack/ci_logo_small.png)

# This template has been deprecated

Please use (and bookmark) this template instead: [CI Full Template](https://github.com/Code-Institute-Org/ci-full-template)

Any projects built using the old template will continue to work. For all new projects, please use the **CI Full Template**, which will be updated more frequently.

---
Happy coding!

1.Purpose of the project
2. user stories
Four pages have been created for this project named as "home", the landing page, "information", "gallery" and "contact us".
1.Home page ( landing page) : - 
    This page is divided into three sections, namely the header, main and footer section. This page is the landing page which greets the user when the url is clicked. The landing page has a header with the title " The Taj- An Eternal Calling" , navigation links to the other pages. These navigation links change color when the user hovers the mouse over it 
    Inside the hero image just below the header, in the center is another link named"architecture of the taj" which opens in a new external page. The  image explains the architecture of the taj and has been sourced from an external source 
    The footer section display the authorship of the website, copyright information and the social media icons
2. Information page: T
    he information page has header titled" !!! Explore the modern wonder of the world!!!, followed by a short paragraph. The paragraph, outlines what the user would experience when he/she visits the Taj and what other things they neeed to do there.  
    There are four sections outlined below which provide additonal information and answer queries uppermost in the mind of  visitors 
    a. Reasons to visit the "Wow" factor 
    b. Historical facts 
    c. How to get there 
    d. best time to visit ( this section also has an external link ) 
3. Gallery page : 
    This page showcases some photographs of the Taj including areas like the front gate. 
    It also shocases the authors family which outlines the fact that the author has indeed visited the Taj and explains from a first hand experience. 
4. Contact us:
    This page is to gather information of any visitor who wishes to get in touch with the author. It collects some personal information and also allows the visitor to upload any image or file they might want to. 

3. Future Features: 
    True to responsive coding priciples the website also needs to be responsive to future requirements an enhancements.
    The author plans to add a 3D video section, glowinf featues and more changes to the sytling and logic using Javascript.

4. Typography and color scheme 
        The following fonts were used 
        The following colors were used 
5. Technology : 
        1.Google Chrome as the Browser  
6. Testing 

1. Code Validation
W3school HTML and CSS validators were used to test the CSS and HTML files at regular intwervals . Snapshots and links below 
![alt text](image.png)

7. Deployment 
  9.1 via gitpod
   9.2 via github pages
   ![alt text](image.png)

5. Credits
    1. The images used in this website were clicked by the author and hence copyright and ownership resides with the author.
    2. Fontawesome.com website was used to download free fonts for the social media icons- Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Youtube 
    3. An image "architecture of the Taj" was referenced from an external website  https://www.artefactindia.com/Taj-Mahal-and-its-marble-inlay-art




3. Features
4. future features
5. Typography and color scheme
6. wireframes
7. technology
8. testing
   8.1 code validation
   8.2 test cases (user story based with screenshots)
   8.3 fixed bugs
   8.4 supported screens and browsers
9. Deployment
   9.1 via gitpod
   9.2 via github pages
10. credits

Commit message:

completed the purpose the project section in readme file

README.md, after:

![CI logo](https://codeinstitute.s3.amazonaws.com/fullstack/ci_logo_small.png)

# This template has been deprecated

Please use (and bookmark) this template instead: [CI Full Template](https://github.com/Code-Institute-Org/ci-full-template)

Any projects built using the old template will continue to work. For all new projects, please use the **CI Full Template**, which will be updated more frequently.

---
Happy coding!

Taj Mahal – an Eternal Calling 

1. Purpose of the project. 

"Taj Mahal - An Eternal calling" website is a "one stop" source of information that caters to users of all ages and varied interests across fields. It provides first hand information based on authors "TWO" visits to the Taj Mahal. It is supported by pictures clicked by the author and includes a "link" to a published artcile articulating the authors thoughts.
As an example, a tourist may find useful information pertaining to "visit times" and "how to get there". Likewise anyone with interest in architecture can find useful information under "tickle your curosity" link on the landing page.Furthermore, details on the "information page" can be used to to arrive at decisons on the reasons to to visit the Taj. 
Visitors to the website can leave their details to get in touch with the author or upload their own experiences via the "upload files and image" section under the "Contact us" page. 
 
2. user stories
Four pages have been created for this project named as "home", the landing page, "information", "gallery" and "contact us".
1.Home page ( landing page) : - 
    This page is divided into three sections, namely the header, main and footer section. This page is the landing page which greets the user when the url is clicked. The landing page has a header with the title " The Taj- An Eternal Calling" , navigation links to the other pages. These navigation links change color when the user hovers the mouse over it 
    Inside the hero image just below the header, in the center is another link named"architecture of the taj" which opens in a new external page. The  image explains the architecture of the taj and has been sourced from an external source 
    The footer section display the authorship of the website, copyright information and the social media icons
2. Information page: T
    he information page has header titled" !!! Explore the modern wonder of the world!!!, followed by a short paragraph. The paragraph, outlines what the user would experience when he/she visits the Taj and what other things they neeed to do there.  
    There are four sections outlined below which provide additonal information and answer queries uppermost in the mind of  visitors 
    a. Reasons to visit the "Wow" factor 
    b. Historical facts 
    c. How to get there 
    d. best time to visit ( this section also has an external link ) 
3. Gallery page : 
    This page showcases some photographs of the Taj including areas like the front gate. 
    It also shocases the authors family which outlines the fact that the author has indeed visited the Taj and explains from a first hand experience. 
4. Contact us:
    This page is to gather information of any visitor who wishes to get in touch with the author. It collects some personal information and also allows the visitor to upload any image or file they might want to. 

3. Future Features: 
    True to responsive coding priciples the website also needs to be responsive to future requirements an enhancements.
    The author plans to add a 3D video section, glowinf featues and more changes to the sytling and logic using Javascript.

4. Typography and color scheme 
        The following fonts were used 
        The following colors were used 
5. Technology : 
        1.Google Chrome as the Browser  
6. Testing 

1. Code Validation
W3school HTML and CSS validators were used to test the CSS and HTML files at regular intwervals . Snapshots and links below 
![alt text](image.png)

7. Deployment 
  9.1 via gitpod
   9.2 via github pages
   ![alt text](image.png)

5. Credits
    1. The images used in this website were clicked by the author and hence copyright and ownership resides with the author.
    2. Fontawesome.com website was used to download free fonts for the social media icons- Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Youtube 
    3. An image "architecture of the Taj" was referenced from an external website  https://www.artefactindia.com/Taj-Mahal-and-its-marble-inlay-art




3. Features
4. future features
5. Typography and color scheme
6. wireframes
7. technology
8. testing
   8.1 code validation
   8.2 test cases (user story based with screenshots)
   8.3 fixed bugs
   8.4 supported screens and browsers
9. Deployment
   9.1 via gitpod
   9.2 via github pages
10. credits
